# Introduction

Modern web applications can turn out huge, bloated, and complex when implementing them as full-blown client-server architectures. Usually you not only have a fontend and a backend application with a database, but also an interface in between to let both entities communicate with each other. In my other books, I teach people about React.js for frontend applications, Node.js for backend applications with databases, and GraphQL or REST for the communication between both entities. Doing all of this by yourself can be a lengthy adventure. If you are looking for a solution in between, where you only serve your users a well-rounded client application experience, Firebase with all its features comes amazingly into play, because it offers you features such as a database and authentication out of the box.

The React with Firebase application we are building together in this book offered me a great foundation for my own business for a long time. Also it taught me all the fundamentals I had to know about databases, authentication, and authorization from a frontend developer's perspective. That's why I wanted to teach others about it. I feel like this book serves two audiences very well:

First, there are plenty of newcomers to React who are proeficient with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Now they have learned React to build modern web applications, but don't know yet how to implement a backend application for further business logic or how to connect a React application to a database. All of this can be overwhelming for developers being new to JavaScript and React. That's why I often recommend Firebase to newcomers, because it is the perfect fit in between before learning about backend applications and databases. It navigates you one step closer to building full-stack applications and also offers everything you need to build sophisticated web applications with a minimalistic tech stack.

Second, there are many people who want to bootstrap their ideas as businesses. However, only having React at your disposal is not sufficient when you need a database, authentication, authorization and hosting. Even though you would know about all these tools, it's still a lengthy endavour to implement everything yourself as a solo entrepeneur. Overall, these people have ideas and ambitiouns, but they lack the necessary tools or time to build a [MVP (Minimal Viable Product)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_viable_product). After I published my initial Firebase in React tutorial some time ago, I have heard many success stories about people who went through the tutorial and build successful businesses on top it. That's why I wanted to extend the tutorial to offer the perfect foundation to build profitable business applications with React.

The book takes you on a journey to learn about Firebase in React applications. All the learnings for Firebase can be applied in other libraries (Vue) and frameworks (Angular) too. Firebase, bought by Google in 2014, is used to replace your backend by having features for authentication, authorization, database management and hosting available for you. In this book, you will learn how to implement a well-rounded authentication flow with sign in (login), sign up (registration) and sign out (logout) that is used by many applications nowadays. In addition, features to improve the UX such as resetting a password, changing a password of an authenticated user, or social logins with Google, Facebook and Twitter, are demonstrated as well. In order to prevent everyone from using your application, you will learn how you implement authorization rules to protect certain areas of your web applications against non authenticated users. Also you will interact with Firebase's database to manage users and other entities (e.g. messages for a chat application). You will experience how to structure your data in Firebase's database and how to interact with it. After you have read the book, you will be able to implement full-fledged sophisticated web applications yourself without worrying about a backend application or database. Only using React with FIrebase enables you to realize your dream applications.

I find Firebase is a great fit for transitioning to full-stack applications development or for building business applications. You get all these great features from Firebase which you would have to implement yourself when building a backend application with a database on your own. This way, you can already experience how a well-build interface (API) should feel and look like before you implement this kind of interfache yourself with a RESTful or GraphQL server application. For now, Firebase deals with all the problems for you, leaving you only focusing on building React applications with their API. I hope the book catches the enthusiam I have for this minimalistic tech stack that enables you to build large scale applications.
